++ J1939


+++ SUMMARY


+++ DETAILS


CAN ID: This is the identifier used to address the message on the CAN bus. It typically consists of an 11-bit or 29-bit identifier, depending on the CAN protocol version.
PGN (Parameter Group Number): This is a key concept in the J1939 protocol. It represents a group of related parameters or data fields within a J1939 message. The PGN is usually encoded within the CAN ID.

Priority: This is the priority of the message, indicating its importance relative to other messages on the bus. Lower values indicate higher priority.

EDP (Extended Data Page): This field is specific to the J1939 protocol and is used to extend the number of available PGNs beyond the original 18-bit range.
DP (Data Page): This field is also specific to the J1939 protocol and is used to further extend the number of available PGNs beyond the original 18-bit range.
PF (Parameter Format): This field is part of the CAN ID and specifies the format of the parameter group within the message.
PS (Parameter Specific): This field is also part of the CAN ID and provides additional information specific to the parameter group.
DLC (Data Length Code): This is the length of the data payload in the message, indicating how many bytes of data are included in the message.


if you see value of PF decide if PS is a destination address or PDU 1
  - rel://files/_5JTDX9IPC5PWG4MY6ZDA.png

with EF00, its destination address, so its always between 2 nodes.
   - https://www.simmasoftware.com/wp-content/uploads/j1939-presentation.pdf

=============================================================================
- PDU1 (Peer-to-Peer): Used for sending messages to a specific device. The PS (PDU Specific) field contains the destination address.
- PDU2 (Broadcast): Used for sending messages to all devices. The PS field is used as a group extension to identify different groups of data or messages.

The group extension helps in categorizing messages into different types for easier data management and interpretation in a network of multiple devices.```

=============================================================================



+++ PARENT
ControllerAreaNetwork