++ Beagle Bone Black Booting Process

The AM335x is complex piece of hardware, but has limited internal RAM (128 kB)
Because of this limited amount of RAM, multiple bootloader stages are needed

These bootloader stages systematically unlock the full functionality of the device so that all complexities of the device are available to the kernel

The AM335x has four distinct bootloader stages:


The four bootloader stages are:

1) ROM
2) SPL (or Secondary Program Loader)
3) U-BOOT
4) Linux Kernel


+++ DETAILS


 
1st Stage Bootloader: ROM Code
--------------------------------

The first stage bootloader is flashed in ROM on the device by Texas Instruments.

The ROM code is the first block of code that is automatically run on device start-up or after power-on reset (POR)

The ROM bootloader code is hardcoded into the device and cannot be changed by the user.

The ROM code has two main functions:

-Configuration of the device and initialization of primary peripherals
	Stack setup
	Configure Watchdog Timer 1 (set to three minutes)
	PLL and System Clocks configuration

- Ready device for next bootloader
	Check boot sources for next bootloader (SPL)
	Moves next bootloader code into memory to be run

The main purpose of the ROM code is to set up the device for the second stage bootloader.

By default, the ROM code in the Sitara AM3359 will boot from the MMC1 interface first (the onboard eMMC), followed by MMC0 (external uSD), UART0 and USB0.

If the boot switch (S2) is held down during power-up, the ROM will boot from the SPI0 Interface first, followed by MMC0 (external uSD), USB0 and UART0.
 
2nd Stage Bootloader: SPL
------------------------------

A fully featured version of U-Boot can be over 400KB, and the internal RAM on the AM335X is 128KB

Hence it is not possible to load this immediately

For this reason, a cut down version of U-Boot called U-Boot SPL (Second Program Loader) is loaded first,

once it has initialised the CPU, it chain loads a fully featured version of U-Boot (u-boot.img).

Name of SPL should be MLO

It should be located on active first partition of MMC, which must be formatted as FAT12/16/32
 
3rd Stage Bootloader - U-Boot
-------------------------------

U-BOOT allows for powerful command-based control over the kernel boot environment via a serial terminal

The user has control over a number of parameters such as boot arguments and the kernel boot command

In addition, U-boot environment variables can be configured. 

These environment variables are stored in the uEnv.txt file on your storage medium.

The built-in environment in u-boot loads a default am335x-boneblack.dts to pass to the kernel at boot.

In uEnv.txt you can explicitly specify a different DTS as well as the command line arguments to pass to the kernel

u-boot is also capable of obtaining network information via DHCP and loading it into environmental variables.

Finaly U-boot loads the kernel and a DTS into memory and boots the kernel with some command line arguments

The kernel initializes and mounts the root filesystem.

By default, the root filesystem is contained in the second partition (mmcblk0p2) of the microSD card, formatted for an ext3 file system.


Boot Stage Terminology
==============================
+--------+----------------+----------------+----------+
| Boot   | Terminology #1 | Terminology #2 | Actual   |
| stage  |                |                | program  |
| number |                |                | name     |
+--------+----------------+----------------+----------+
| 1      |  Primary       |  -             | ROM code |
|        |  Program       |                |          |
|        |  Loader        |                |          |
|        |                |                |          |
| 2      |  Secondary     |  1st stage     | u-boot   |
|        |  Program       |  bootloader    | SPL      |
|        |  Loader (SPL)  |                |          |
|        |                |                |          |
| 3      |  -             |  2nd stage     | u-boot   |
|        |                |  bootloader    |          |
|        |                |                |          |
| 4      |  -             |  -             | kernel   |
|        |                |                |          |
+--------+----------------+----------------+----------+


Reference: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31244862/what-is-the-use-of-spl-secondary-program-loader
 


+++ PARENT
BeagleBoneBlack