++ Food Recipe Vegan Butter

+++ TOOLS
 
  * Bread pan (to shape as desired)
  
  *  


+++ INGREDIENTS

    1 cup (240ml) Refined Coconut Oil (Melted)*
    2 Tbsp Canola Oil* (See Notes)
    1/3 cup (80ml) Unsweetened Soy or Almond Milk
    1 tsp Apple Cider Vinegar
    1 tsp Nutritional Yeast
    Small Pinch Turmeric
    1/2 tsp Salt

+++ DIRECTIONS

    Add melted refined coconut oil to the blender jug along with the canola oil.
    Add the apple cider vinegar to the unsweetened soy or almond milk and stir in so that it curdles into buttermilk and then add it in.
    Add the nutritional yeast, small pinch of turmeric and salt.
    Blend very well until smooth.
    Pour out into a butter dish and refrigerate until set.
    Remove from the fridge to thaw for a few minutes if using on fresh bread or creaming with sugar for baking.

+++ NOTES

*Must be refined coconut oil not extra virgin coconut oil.

*Avocado oil is a great option to use instead of canola oil. Olive oil also works but bear in mind that high speed blending can cause olive oil to become bitter. If using olive oil, add it in at the end and mix in without blending.

*Lasts up to 2-weeks in refrigerator. If you need it to last longer, freeze the excess and only keep what you will use within 2-weeks in your fridge.

*Make it soft and spreadable: This butter recipe above comes out a lot like a traditional butter in that it’s very firm straight out the fridge and needs to soften first before it becomes spreadable (unless you’re spreading on toast, in which case you’re good to go!). This makes it great for the purposes that a regular butter is good for. However, if you want to use it mostly as a spread (that also works for baking and frying) and want it soft and spreadable straight out of the fridge then adapt the first two ingredients of the recipe as follows: 1/2 cup (120ml) Refined Coconut Oil and 1/2 cup (120ml) Canola Oil or Avocado Oil (OR 1/4 cup (60ml) of each canola oil and avocado oil) and then follow the rest of the recipe exactly as it is. This results in a soft, spreadable vegan butter that still works great for baking and frying. Thanks to one of our readers for experimenting with the recipe and coming up with this adaptation.


+++ PARENT
++++ FoodRecipes