++ Horticulture Bean Garbanzo


+++ SYNONYMS/REDIRECT
Kabuli Chana

+++ SUMMARY


* There are different types of "chic pea" (garbanzo bean).
  Note: Names are different and overlapping based on region (confusing)
  * (This page) garbanzo beans (Kabuli Chana, Safed Chana)
  * Green chic pea (Maharashtra)
  * Black garbanzo (Kala Chana, Desi Chana, Chana, chholar dal) 
    * When split the result is a yellowish color
  * Picture of the types of Chic Pea:    https://tce-live2.s3.amazonaws.com/media/media/180299e2-8dc8-4e60-9778-24810084657a.jpg


Nitrogen fixer, good companion for all but onion family, beets.

Days to Harvest: ranges from 90 to 100 days.

Ideal Soil pH: 6.5, range: 5.3 - 7.0

Plant Height: up to 2 feet tall. Usually needs trellis/support.

plant seed once temperatures exceed 60 degrees F

+++ PROPAGATION
* From Seed:
* From Cutting/Transplant:
    
+++ PLANT STRUCTURE
  * 

+++ LIFE CYCLE
  * 1) 45-60 day vegetative period,
  * 2) 15-25 day flowering period
  * 3) 30-40 day maturation period

  * a flower lasts less than one day, 
  * each plant makes dozens of flowers for three to four weeks
  * seedpods swell to the size of a pea and turn from green to gold as the seeds inside ripen, 
  * the plants then dry out and die.

+++ TEMPERATURE / HUMIDITY / ACIDITY

seeds: Min: -3 C, 
after two-leaf stage: min: -8 C for short time
 
* 3) Humidity:
  * 50-60%  
* 4) Acidity pH:
  *   
  
+++ SPECIES
  * 

+++ HARVEST AND STORAGE
* ~100 days to harvest.
* Method 1 (let them dry on the plant): 
  * harvest when the plant leaves are dry and have turned brown. 

* Method 2: (pick fresh, dry later): 
  * pull plants and put them on a flat, warm surface to let the pods dry.

* Seed:
  *  
* Yield ()
  * 
* Storage:
  *   
  
+++ DIMENSIONS
* 1) Container:
* 2) Plant:
  * Vertical: max height (15-21inch)(cm)
* 3) Seed Depth: 
  * 1.0-1.5inch  
* 4) Spacing:
  * (18-24in row, 3-6in)
  * 
* 5) Root System:


+++ RELATED

HorticulturePlantTemplate

+++ PARENT

ProcessHorticulture