++ Installing Wikid Pad On Ubuntu


installing wikidpad on ubuntu 18.04

  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get install python-configparser

    
  you need to get wxPython, which is gotten by installing pip3, python3-pip,
  then, 
    - https://wiki.wxpython.org/How%20to%20install%20wxPython

Next, on VMware, needed to install this library with a deb file, which is an 
install package basically.
  https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/amd64/libpng12-0/download


Aslo had to install https://www.libsdl.org/download-1.2.php
 it came as some weird format of zip, had to drop into /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/



WikidPad Source =

  Clone with https: ​https://github.com/WikidPad/WikidPad.git

  Clone with ssh: git@github.com:WikidPad/WikidPad.git

  Clone with SVN: ​https://github.com/WikidPad/WikidPad
  (Warning: this repository isn't compatible with previous Subversion repository
   from CheckingOutFromSvn)
  Windows users

  Git clients available for Windows are ​Git Extensions (my favorite) or the GitHub-specific ​GitHub for Windows


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



WikidPad on Linux = 
http://trac.wikidpad2.webfactional.com/wiki/InstallLinux

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


wxTools, per this webpost:

http://trac.wikidpad2.webfactional.com/wiki/InstallLinux#IntegratedInstructionsforUbuntu

On ubuntu lucid and maverick, all you need are the wxpython and wxtools packages 
available from the ​synaptic package manager (which will usually already be 
installed). Then WikidPad 2.x will run perfectly. On lucid, it is worth 
checking you get wx version 2.8.11, as some annoying bugs were fixed in 
that version - if the default package is older, there is a PPA linked from
the wxPython webpage as far as I recall.


Alternatively, WikidPad 2.0 also appears to be included this PPA: ​http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/packages/show/254039 



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


sudo apt install python3-pip

python2 reports __spec__ undeclared. i think its a python 3 thing only..??
wx.siplib not found, trying to run with python3.


https://wiki.wxpython.org/How%20to%20install%20wxPython

  To use gtk2 or gtk3 apps you don't need to install anything. But, if you want to develop (or even just compile) apps this is what you're looking for:

  sudo apt-get install libgtk-3-dev

  added --user to command: 
  pip3 install -U \-f https://extras.wxpython.org/wxPython4/extras/linux/gtk3/ubuntu-16.04 \wxPython --user


next was an error:
  configure: error: wxMediaCtrl was explicitly requested but can't be built.
    
        Fix the problems reported above or don't use --enable-mediactrl configure option.




tried this command :
sudo apt-get install libgstreamer1.0-0 gstreamer1.0-plugins-base gstreamer1.0-plugins-good gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad gstreamer1.0-plugins-ugly gstreamer1.0-libav gstreamer1.0-doc gstreamer1.0-tools gstreamer1.0-x gstreamer1.0-alsa gstreamer1.0-gl gstreamer1.0-gtk3 gstreamer1.0-qt5 gstreamer1.0-pulseaudio



see what happens:
  nothing good, so try typing this in synaptic: 
webkit2gtk 


and install everything you see, reboot the cmd.

see what happens:
  WEbkit warnings fixed, gStreamer warning,failures not fixed. so in synaptic i typed gstream, and scattershot downloaded anything related to gstream, and python.

see what happens:

  well its been running for a while now trying to make a "wheel" whatever the fuck that means, i dont know its 4am and i have to work tomrrow so fuck you ok.
  - dont forget that you had to manually correct the corrupted pip file!


+++ Related 
    https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/BuildYourOwnKernel

+++ Parent
  ???


