++ Linux Scratch Notes




- In Linux the graphical user interface is not a part of the operating system. The graphical user interface found on most Linux desktops is provided by software called the X Window System, which defines a device independent way of dealing with screens, keyboards and pointer devices.


- Codeblocks -> project -> properties -> build targets -> build options -> Compiler flags , add one with -lboost_system as a linker option, not compiler option. dont make it exclusive.

- had to add -lboost_system

- to "become root" i.e. to become admin = 
	-sudo su - this will make you root for the rest of the cmd's life
	- or youc can just type sudo before every command.

- i was able to get logitech unifying software
  - sudo apt-get install solaar
  - log out/in yeah!



- copy folders from directories to others.
  - with a browser, you have to open it as root.
    - 
  - sudo cp -R /path/to/files/you/want/copied/ /copy/to/this/path/
	-

- install sudo apt-get install libgtk2.0-dev
- sudo apt-get install libwxgtk3.0-dev
	- this solved a problem for me!

- make
- make install

- wx-config --version

------------------------------------------------------------------------
- dpkg -l 
  - list all packages installed!
  - apparently synaptic package manager is most famous GUI for packages


- https://www.binarytides.com/apt-get-tutorial-package-management-ubuntu-commandline/


- How to list and remove PPA repository on Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic Beaver Linux    
  - https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-list-and-remove-ppa-repository-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux
	
 
- had to open codeblocks via command line "codeblocks"
- when creating codeblocks project, i had to switch to "frame based" instread of dialogue based

- sudo apt-get install codeblocks-contrib 
	- this was necessary.


- Package requirements (hunspell) were not met:
- ./bootstrap - run this while in codeblocks
- ./configure --with

./configure --with-contrib-plugins=all

ALWAYS DO SUDO MAKE INSTALL AFTER A MAKE, NOT WITHOUT THE SUDO



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
says one guy on the forums about
stuff:

	this is my standard procedure:

	make clean


	git pull
	./autogen.sh
	./configure --enable-debug
	make
	sudo make install

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


./configure --with-contrib-plugins=all


It seems very important during compiling codeblocks to 
take whatever your compile error is, and ssearch for anythign related
in synaptic package manager and install it.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

../src/generic/imaglist.cpp(85): assert "bitmapSize == m_size" failed in Add(): All bitmaps in wxImageList must have the same size



copy file from current directory into another directory:

cp filename /tmp





~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`

so now its building and runnign, with that exception type error on startup, 
but either way, you order papa jahns pizzah, and you also have to fix the close processing it makes for a default wxsmith project:
https://forums.wxwidgets.org/viewtopic.php?t=34967
