++ OSE Object System Irrigation Buckets Small Low Water Pressure With Drainage Tube

+++ SUMMARY
  * Need to address problem of a clean way of organizing all iterations and
    versions of a product, especially with product options.


+++ TOOLS / DEVICES
OSEObjectSystemIrrigation
0) Hand Drill

1) 1,1/4 step drill bit for drain hole to fit uniseal.
  * ~30$ 
  * highly advise against spiral hole saw type, step bit is easiest
    * bad: rel://files/img/_YH8CWR5BON59H5JFKFB9.png 
  * step bits get smoothest hole, deburring manually is dangerous, 
    * could make hole too big  

2) 2-3 inch hole saw 
  * For hole plant grows through/in 

3) Poking device (safety pin, ) 
  * to place pin size hole in tubing to push spray emitter fitting through.
  * Not too large, or fitting will be leaky, but shouldnt be big deal.

4) Large scissors / tin snips or pipe cutters 
  * to cut 3/8 and 3/4 vinyl tubing

5) Large wooden surface on which you can drill through bucket lids
  * slab of plywood on the floor works great. 
6)

7)
 

+++ SUPPLIES / INGREDIENTS

  * For n plants:

  * 1) (n) buckets
  * 2) (n) bucket lids
  * 3) (2n-1 of length:) 3/4 uniseals (for drain tube)
  * 4) (n-1 of length:)  3/4 vinyl black tube
  * 5) (1 of length:)    3/4 vinyl black tube, for resevoir long drain
  * 6) (n of length:)    3/8 vinyl black   
  * 7) sprayer buddys that plug into the tube, emitters.
  * 8) (2n-1) 3/8 male to male couplers barbed, nylon or metal
  * 9) (n sets of 2, length 4inch) waterproof 1/32, 1mm wire (
    * for wrapping 3/8 tube to lid tops)\
  * 10) (1) Resevoir Bucket, either 2 gal or 5 gallon + lid
  * 11) (1) OSEObjectDevice
  * 12) 
  * 13)
  * 14)
  * 15)
  * 16)
  * 17)
  * 18)
  * 19)
  * 20)
  * 21)
  
  
+++ DIRECTIONS

  * Lid:
  * 1) Use 3 in hole saw, drill hole in center of a plant bucket.
    * 
  
  * 2) Using 1/8" drill bit, drill holes off center that 
    * holes are used to loop wire through to hold down the 3/8 supply tubing 
  
  * 3) Wrap metal wire with both ends sticking up on top side for easy access
  * 4) Cut the pieces of 3/8 vinyl to size.
  * 5) For one piece of vinyl, tie off one end with twist tie.
    * This is the first bucket in the chain, only one link needed.
  * 6) Place one male to male barbed 3/8 coupler in each piece of 3/8 vinyl
  * 7) Poke hole in the vinyl tubing and place in spray emitter
    * Hole should be placed a distance of (bucket radius) from the tube side with the barbed fitting. 
      * the side with the coupler will arbitrarily always be placed on the buckets edge for each node as a reference.    
  * 8) Drill drainage hole for bucket. Using 1 1/4" step bit drill bit
    * hole should be parallel with the bucket lid 
+++ NOTES

  *



+++ RELATED

RecipeTemplate

+++ PARENT
OSEObjectSystemIrrigation