++ OSE Object Device Interface Audio Notes


+++ SUMMARY

* Clarify block diagram:
  * HowWillObjectDeviceInterfaceAudioWorkWithLinuxOnAHighLevel
  * Libra.Chat, HexChat. for windows, chatzilla,mirc didnt work. issues.
  * #alsa, #alsa-soc


IS this correcT:
1) We need a an AdvancedLinuxSoundArchitecture([ALSA]) Driver for our device,
   which will probably have audio codec chip(s) that spit out [PCM] audio to the linux computer.

2) Our device will 



  FireBox

understand what software, operating system, if any my chip will be running.
  A:

understand the ALSA API and if thats what im using, if so how?

+++ NOTES


[Wed 2021-11-03]

one channel usb audio interface. 
ADC chip recommended, need to learn from it.
www.yoyodyneconsulting.ca/pages/
https://www.avrfreaks.net/forum/open-source-usb-audio-interface-audio-widge


existing audio interfaces that work witih linux
https://discourse.ardour.org/t/multichannel-audio-interface-for-linux/89706


[Tue 2021-11-02]
  * Work on OSEObjectDeviceInterfaceAudioDesignDetail
    * 


[Mon 2021-11-01]
  I think we should go usb-c and as a starting point, lets make this one
    * Add Pre-Amplifier Circuit. Add multiple inputs, figure out a better
      resolution and quality chip (better sample rate, bit depth?) 
        * Per OSEObjectDeviceAudioInterfaceRequirements
  OSEObjectDeviceInterfaceAudioPCM2902First
  
  

=======
OLDER:

https://github.com/erichVK5/PCM290x-USB-audio-interface

  - plan right now is arduino + AB&T Technologie Information easyCAT rev C which is an etherCAT slave,
    - or research using something called like "Jack" or audio jack for linux.
  - EasyCATShieldforArduino 
  
  * Right now I am investigating using a raspberry pi, with ethernet port as the hub through which up to 48 inputs could communicate
through netjack/netjack2.

2. what is the "best"/easiest/best documented open source real time audio data
   protocol for this device to use? (AES##?)
   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lI_ghofJKqg


+++ PARENT

OSEObjectDeviceAudioInterface