++ Process Horticulture Potato
HorticulturePotato
+++ SUMMARY

  * Sweet potatos are different enough to warrant their own page
    * ProcessHorticultureSweetPotato 

  * Potatos are part of root system of a green flowering plant. 
  * Sometimes/often the green leaves are also edible.
  * Most potatos are bushing and dont require trellis, 
    * sweet potatos are vining, need trellis to guide growth 

  * Preferable to plant in (container/above ground), which allows harvest by hand.
    * otherwise extraction is often more likely to damaging delicate potatos.
    * harvest in container involves flipping container and breaking apart soil by hand

  * Determinant potatos (main crop)
    * store long 
    * grow on multiple levels of the stem.
    * much larger
    * longer growing season
    
  * Indeterminant potatos (first and second early):
    * really fast growing, 
    * single layer growth
    * much smaller in size
    * can be started early in the year

+++ 2) PROPAGATION
* 2.1) From Seed:
  * much less common 
  
* 2.2) from a sprouted or "chitted" potato (seed potato)
  * take a potato of golfball size or larger
    * or if large potato has sprouts on multiple sides, cut into sections 
  * removing all but one or two healthy sprouts from each potato:
    * will yield larger potatos
  * leaving many sprouts on each seed potato:
    * more smaller potatos    
    
+++ 3) PLANT STRUCTURE
* 

+++ LIFE CYCLE
  * Germination of Seed:
    *
  * 

+++ ACIDITY
  * pH: ()

  
+++ TEMPERATURE ? ACIDITY

* 3-4 months of cool weather – 33-80F – to produce well. 
* six or eight hours of direct sunshine
* most well drained soil

4.1) Temp: 
  * 
 
* 4.2) Humidity:
  * 50-60%
    
* 4.3) Acidity pH:

  
+++ SPECIES
  * Russet
  * Sweet

+++ HARVEST AND STORAGE

* If stored potatos sprout, theyre still edible. cut out the sprouts
  * cut deeper into the "eye" the it sprouts from the larger it is 
  * glycoalkaloids are present in sprouts, which is undesirable, poisonous in large amounts

* potatos turn green when exposed to the sun, indicate development of solanine in potato.
  * do not eat green potatos, throw them out. 

* 7.3) Processing Lenin
  * Link to separate article OSEObjectMaterialFabricLenin 
  
* Typical yields quantity:
  * 15 Lbs potato out of a 10 gallon container

  * Harvesting potato for seed:
    * Ideal size is size of egg.
    * After cure (allow to dry in complete darkness)

  * Harvesting Potato for food
    * Ready to harvest when many leaves are yellow. 
    * Must carefully get out from under soil. Do not throw, bruising occurs easily.
    * Cure: Allow to dry for 3-5 days. Keep in complete darkness. Dont wash.
    * Store in a sack, or better store in container surrounded by Hay.
      * Potatos will turn green (inedible) if exposed to light 
  * Yield (Leaves)
  
+++ DIMENSIONS

* 8.1) Grow Container:
  * 5 gallon min. for all but sweet potato
  * 20 gallon min. for sweet potato
  
  * 5 gal        = 1-2 potatoes/slips.
  * 10 gal       = 2-4 potatoes/slips.
  * 15 gallon    = 4-6 potatoes/slips.
  * 20 gallon    = 6-8 potatoes/slips.
  * 25 gallon    = 8-10 potatoes/slips.

* 8.2) Plant:
  * 

* 8.3) Seed: 
  * plant 3 inch deep

* 8.4) Spacing:
  * Plant 3 inches deep
  * If in rows: 12 inches apart, rows 12-15 apart to allow for topping later

* 8.5) Root System:

+++ 4) LIFE CYCLE
  * 4.1) vegetative period:
  * 4.2) flowering period:
  * 4.3) maturation period:

* Notes

* Photos of complete life cycle:


+++ GROWTH GUIDE

  * If container, 
    * recommend at least 20 gallon.
    * fill 3/4 with soil, top off.
  
  * if outdoor
    * if sweet potato plant when no more frost will occur, theyre not cold resistant
    * 
  


* 

+++ EXTERNAL LINKS

* (1) Comprehensive vidoe:
  * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hgJa2wrX6lA
  
+++ RELATED

HorticulturePlantTemplate
ProcessHorticultureSweetPotato

+++ PARENT

ProcessHorticulture